'Superfly' movie review: Shameful remake doubles down on sins of the original
The new "Superfly" is, simply, a terrible movie. It is slick, and it boasts action, hot tunes and style to spare. But beyond the polish that a deep-pocketed studio backer can buy -- in this case, Sony's Columbia Pictures shingle -- this is a shamefully hollow movie that fails on multiple levels.

The most glaring failure is the storytelling, which is as uneven as it is unimaginative. Even worse than its deeply rooted brainlessness, though, is the message it sends, functioning not as a guilty-pleasure romp but as a reinforcement of negative racial stereotypes and a gross glorification of the kind of unchecked violence that has turned major American cities into warzones.

(In many places, they're worse than warzones, actually. Through the first five months of 2018, the Department of Defense has confirmed the deaths of 13 deployed U.S. service members. In that same time, 76 people have been killed on the streets of New Orleans alone. Which means, statistically, it's safer for many young Americans to pick up a gun and fight in Afghanistan than to stay at home.)
The truly sad thing is that 1972's original "Super Fly" -- part of Hollywood's "blaxploitation" movement of the 1970s -- was criticized for the exact same things. Rather than righting the original film's missteps, the new one doubles down on them. The only significant difference here is that the title of the new movie is one word instead of two.

Both films center on a young, African-American cocaine dealer -- named Youngblood Priest, played in the original by Ron O'Neal and in the remake by an impressively coiffed Trevor Jackson -- who wants to get out of the business before he ends up in an early grave.

That's understandable enough. Admirable, even.

Priest's chosen method, however, isn't quite so noble: He wants to pull off one last major job so he can retire in luxury and quit looking over his shoulder all the time. Unfortunately, multiple forces are conspiring to stop him. That leads to countless bodies piling up during repeated, mind-numbing shootouts. But, the film seems to be arguing, all that bloodshed -- all that death -- is worth it if you end up on a yacht with a pretty girl in the Mediterranean when it's all over.

One would hope that, all these years later, someone could have figured out a way to turn the story's central protagonists -- who are almost exclusively pimps and drug dealers -- into true heroes rather than antiheroes. Perhaps it could have even managed to deliver a message that there are other ways to get off the streets than through gun violence.

Just ask the film's co-star, Jason Mitchell, who plays Priest's fast-talking sidekick, Eddie, in the remake. Before he hit it big with a memorable performance in 2015's "Straight Outta Compton," Mitchell was a street-level drug dealer in New Orleans who -- after burying one of his best friends -- also decided to get out of the business.

Rather than shooting his way out, he enrolled in acting classes. Now he's a rising Hollywood star who generated a fair bit of pre-Oscar buzz for his turn in 2017's "Mudbound." More recently, he's sparked talk of a potential Emmy nomination for his performance in the Showtime series "The Chi." He's also hands-down one of the best things about the new "Superfly."

Now that's a hell of a story. It's inspiring. It's hopeful. And it reinforces the argument that black lives, indeed, matter. Unfortunately, that's not the movie we get with "Superfly."

Oh, it includes a few superficial updates for modern times. It's set in Atlanta instead of Harlem, for example. It crowbars cryptocurrency into the plot. It includes a not-so-subtle jab at Confederate monument supporters. But beneath it all, its heart and head are both stuck firmly in 1972.

To be fair, the new "Superfly" is by no means the only recent movie catering to audiences' bloodlust. Most recently, "Hotel Artemis" and "Deadpool 2" stormed into theaters, guns a-blazing, resulting in their own spectacular body counts. But there's a major difference between a film that is presented as a far-fetched, escapist fantasy (which is what "Hotel Artemis" and "Deadpool 2" inarguably are) and a film like "Superfly," which is rooted in a certain realism -- and which, thus, strikes uncomfortably close to home.

The original "Super Fly" could get away with that to a certain degree because it represented something fresh in Hollywood: black filmmakers telling black stories for black audiences. While there are certainly inroads still to be made in the industry from a diversity standpoint, things have changed -- and standards raised -- over the past 45 years.

The new "Superfly" was an opportunity to salvage the image of the original by saying something thoughtful or profound. Instead, it is deals in the same old nonsense -- and is thus an undeniable missed opportunity.

It's no wonder Julien Christian Lutz directed "Superfly" under the pseudonym Director X. I wouldn't want my name on this forgettable, ethically egregious dumpster fire, either.