Somebody please save John Travolta from his own worst instincts about which roles to accept. He's in desperate need of another intervention, like Quentin Tarantino's when he revived the star's career by casting him in "Pulp Fiction."
Tim Allen, Martin Lawrence and William H. Macy don't exhibit sterling judgment, either, signing on as Travolta's co-stars in the so-called comedy "Wild Hogs." They couldn't have been attracted by the script, which is hogwash and not even funny hogwash. So was it the chance to work with the director of "National Lampoon's Van Wilder" or to squeeze into tight black leather pants that sold them?

Perhaps it's not within the purview of a mere critic to question the judgment if not the sanity of Disney executives who green-lit this travesty, but who exactly did they envision to be the audience?
Young males, the mainstay of today's multiplexes, aren't likely to rush out to see a movie about buddies experiencing a midlife crisis, who think they can speed through it by hopping on their Harleys and heading out for Southern California. Easy riders they're not. Baby boomers will almost certainly stay away because who wants to be reminded of the desperation that sets in with the passing years?

The screenplay by Brad Copeland (who should have rested on his laurels after writing several episodes of "My Name is Earl" and "Arrested Development") makes the old high-school pals out to be doddering fools. Dudley (Macy) is a supposed computer wiz who gets stuck on a site called Granny Love in which a creaky voice yells loud enough for passers-by to hear "Granny's going to spank your bottom." Learning that his business is bankrupt, Woody (Travolta) reacts by attempting to drive down the price of his pre-teenage gardener. Doug (Allen) is so riddled with insecurities that he insists on identifying himself as a doctor -- even when nobody asks -- although he's really a dentist. Bobby (Lawrence) takes off a year from his plumbing job to write a how-to book but doesn't get very far and is ordered by his domineering wife to return to toilet duty.

Their IQs don't shoot up when the Wild Hogs -- the name these suburban wannabe biker dudes go by -- hit the road. They unwisely get into a scuffle with a Hells Angels-like gang led by a macho bully (Ray Liotta, the only actor to put any energy into this sorry endeavor) with repercussions that dog the Hogs everywhere they ride.

There's a truly offensive running gag about Dudley, Woody, Doug and Bobby repeatedly being mistaken for gay. This happens once when they accidentally burn down their tents (the Four Stooges would be a better moniker than Wild Hogs) and are forced to sleep together on one mattress. A police officer spots them and after first threatening arrest makes a pass instead. The cop later sees them swimming in the raw, which only confirms his original suspicion.

If enough people are seduced by the star-heavy cast to see this pile of nonsense, we could be treated to "Wild Hogs II," in which the foursome dump the Harleys for bicycles built for two -- another sure indication that they must be gay.

-- Advisory: Humor offensive only for its stupidity and a quick glimpse of William H. Macy's naked butt.